# Introduction to Data Science Capstone Project
This repository contains portions of the final/capstone project for the Introduction to Data Science course at NYU.  

- [Overview](#Overview)
- [Structure](#Structure)
- [Acknowledgements](#Acknowledgements)

## Overview
The capstone project encapsulates the knowledge and insights gained from the introduction to data science course. The data chosen for this project consists of 52000 songs with their respective song qualities (instrumentalness, acousticness, duration, etc.) and the target variable is the assigned "popularity score" generated by Spotify.  
The goal is to determine whether any of the song qualities are correlated with the "popularity score".  
The python notebook is a smaller part of a larger collaborative project and includes some results from previous coding labs.  
The tasks involve data analysis to evaluate linear regression models (simple linear regression and multiple linear regression) and principal component analysis with the Kaiser criterion and silhouette score to determine whether the genres correspond to the number of clusters in the data. Ultimately it appears that the number of clusters do not align with the genres nor do the aforementioned features contribute to the popularity score.   

## Structure  
- final_project_lucy.ipynb: python notebook with the relevant code
- spotify52kData.csv: csv file used as the data source

## Acknowledgements
- The code for question 6 relies on the code from the PCA lab as it seemed very applicable for the prompt.






